# Josh's Contribution to the Proposal

## Heilmeier's Questions

4\. Who cares?

5\. If you\'re successful, what difference and impact will it make, and
how do you measure them (e.g., via user studies, experiments, ground
truth data, etc.)?

6\. What are the risks and payoffs?

7\. How much will it cost?

## Answers to Heilmeier's Questions

4\. This project will impact the millions of people living and working
in Los Angeles and surrounding areas such as first responders (e.g.,
fire fighters and ambulance drivers), the people driving in Los Angeles
and surrounding areas, and city planners. Traffic accidents caused an
estimated 31,720 deaths in from January to September 2021. Therefore,
this will impact nearly everyone, including people who do not drive
(NHTSA, 2022).

5\. If successful, this project can be used by first responders will be
able to use this project to more efficiently route resources to areas
that are predicted to have high rates of vehicle accidents. People
driving in Los Angeles and surrounding areas will be able to use this
project to find routes that avoid areas predicted to have high rates of
vehicles accidents or to be more alert while driving in these areas.
City planners will be able to use this project to determine better
methods to help alleviate traffic, mitigate the effects of vehicle
collisions, and make better informed decisions concerning vehicle
accidents and traffic. The way that this can be measured is through
simulations, using ground truth data, user experience research, and
studies following implementation to determine if serious injuries are
reduced or if the number of accidents have decreased.

6\. There are multiple risks with this project. One risk is that we do
not encapsulate all necessary predictors and the model is a poor
predictor of vehicle accidents. While many studies have generated
models, for ours to be effective it needs to have a high prediction
capability. Another risk is that we are not able to obtain enough data
to train, validate, and test our models or that the datasets obtained
are disparate and integrating them is too difficult or not possible. The
payoff is that injuries, deaths, and accidents can be reduced therefore
saving lives, time, and resources.

7\. This project is estimated to have no cost as the government
(federal, state, and local) publish the necessary datasets at no cost
and many companies offer free tier (or free for students) that we can
utilize.
